The answer is that you have
a one third chance of winning,
if you stick with door number one.
And a two thirds chance if you
switch to door number two.
How do we explain that?
Why and why isn't it 50 50?
While it's true that
there's two possibilities.
But we have learned from probability,
that just because there are two options
doesn't mean that both
options are equally likely.
It's easier to explain why the first
door has a one third probability,
because when you started
the car could be in anyone or
three places, you choose one of them.
That probability was one-third.
And that probability hasn't been changed
by the revealing of one
of the other doors.
Why is door number two two-thirds?
Well, one way to explain it is that
the probability has to sum to one, and
if one-third is here,
the two thirds has to be here.
But why doesn't the same argument
that you use for one, hold for two?
Why can't we say the probability of
two holding the car was a third,
before this door was revealed?
Why has that changed two
that has not changed one?
And the reason is, because we've learned
something about door number two.
We've learned that it wasn't the door
that was flipped over by the host.
And so that additional information
has updated the probability.
Whereas we haven't learned anything
additional about door number one,
because it was never an option that
the host might switch door number one.
And in fact in this case
if we reveal the door,
we find that's where
the car actually is.
So you see, learning probability,
may end up winning you something.